So far, we know how to write a function that receives a defined number of parameters, for example
two, and then work with them.
But how would we solve a function that allows us, for example, to add as many numbers as it receives
without knowing previously how many numbers are going to be passed as arguments?
In this case, if the user calls some passing three numbers, he will receive an error.
The solution to this problem comes from the hand of two magic words star args and double star quarks,
which actually means key word args.
And we will explain it in detail.
Let's start this lecture by getting to know the star args.
The expression args comes from arguments, and thanks to the star args in Python we can define functions
whose number of arguments is variable.
That is, we can define generic functions that do not accept a certain number of parameters but adapt
to the number of arguments with which they are called.
If we use star args in the declaration of a function, we can make the number of parameters it accepts
as variable, and in that way we can populate our definition with code that iterates through all the
arguments it has received regardless of the number.
A curious detail is that the use of the args word is actually a convention.
The code will accept any word you use in its place as long as it starts with a star.
But it's still a good practice to use ARGs as it helps us understand our code faster.
Join us over in pitch form to show you this in the field.
So let's start by analyzing a basic function known as SUM, which will have two arguments A and B.
And we'll add them up, of course, as a result.
Search function will return the sum of A plus B.
Well, that's the whole function.
And if I want to invoke it, I just have to name it some, then pass my arguments to it, say five and
six, and let's print it so as to see it on the screen.
So run, run.
And we choose ARGs, which is the name of this file and it returns 11 since it's added them up correctly.
So now let's see what happens if the user adds a third factor.
As we said before, this will inevitably return an error because there's some function requires two
positional arguments, but we've passed three.
Therefore that's an error that the invocation is not valid.
It makes sense in this way.
When you create a function, you set the limit regarding the required number of arguments.
If we invoke this function and pass more arguments than required or less, the function will return
with an error.
In today's lecture, however, we're learning how to create functions that receive an indefinite number
of arguments.
For example, there can be functions in which you need the user to add up all the numbers they want.
How can we do this?
We're not yet able to create arguments that allow us to have an indefinite number of parameters just
by taking into account what we've learned so far.
That's the reason why Asterix ARGs comes into the rescue.
Let's replace this group of parameters here with the asterisks args expression.
Naturally our internal code is obsolete now, so we have to retype it.
Let's imagine a some function that can add up all the arguments we pass to it.
Okay.
We'll store total in a variable starting at zero.
And then we'd say that for each argument in arguments, colon total will be equal to the sum of itself,
plus the argument of each one of the loops.
Then this would return total as the result.
So now we will try this printing in which we have three arguments and it returns the sum 16.
And if we add more arguments 110.
500.
No matter how many you add, it will keep on adding them up.
If we pass only two arguments, it will also add them up.
And this is great because there's no limits anymore.
And I can apply this function to any situation where this flexibility is needed.
Take into account that I've created this code for educational purposes so that you can see that it iterates
over each one of the arguments.
Since asterisks args is actually an interval, in this case a tuple.
And if I want to make it simpler I can use the sum function so it adds args up and it also works.
Here's the result.
11.
And if I add more numbers it will also add them up.
This is way easier and the previous approach was used for educational purposes.
In addition, it's fundamental for you to know that Asterisks ARGs is a convention, just as Phil told
you in the introduction.
The important part is the asterisks, which means all the arguments.
But if you say all the planes and then put planes here, the function will work exactly the same.
This is a convention.
I advise you always to use ARGs so that you or the people are able to read your code more easily by
doing so will immediately know what you're referring to when reading ARGs.
So that's all regarding this useful resource.
Now you can put it into practice with a series of exercises.
Then in the next lecture, we're going to take a step forward and learn about the asterisks, asterisks,
keyword arguments.
So see that?